# Assignment 1
Marin Gray

1.	Wellesley Student Athlete Hub
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Domain: Athletic Schedules and Huddle
As a former student athlete, the administration emphasizes supporting other teams, specifically attending other teams sports games. In the past, there was an award given to the team that attended the most games to support their fellow student athletes. In addition, as student athletes on a small campus we like to support each other because even a small crowd can give a lot of motivation.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Problem: Lack of connection and ease of use
All the team schedules are on separate webpages and run exclusively by the college. There is no centralized location to view all the games and keep up with wins and losses. It would also be great to see my friend’s highlights without having to rewatch the whole game video. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Selection:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. Live updates. I believe Wellesley College provides live updates best on their websites and I want this app to have more of a community focus.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. Auto upload highlights. I was unsure how to execute this feature and I believe Student Athletes would engage more if they uploaded their own highlights.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Comparable: 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. [Huddle](https://huddlehuddle.com/): A platform to buy and view game footage, however it does not have game schedules. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. [Wellesley College Athletics page](https://wellesleyblue.com/index.aspx); A website with all the teams’ schedules, rosters, and live updates for games, however there is no central way to view the schedules.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Evidence:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. [Athletic events can promote school spirit](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/student-success/college-experience/2024/09/05/seven-ways-promote-school-spirit-and-college) and a sense of belonging that researchers found [increases student retention](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/15210251241231242).  
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. The Washington Post says [athletic events are community and tradition builders](https://www.vicksburgpost.com/2025/05/15/how-college-sports-influence-campus-culture-and-student-identity/) that can create community across generations with alumni continuing to support their schools by patronizing games and matches.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. Student, [Avyay](https://www.theeagleonline.com/article/2025/04/opinion-how-american-university-can-improve-school-spirit) says after the men’s basketball team's success his friends and fellow students took a greater interest in their community. This spures him to continue this trend with more community building events that make AU students proud of their institution.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;d. [A study from 2021](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/352671807_Declining_Student_Attendance_at_College_Sporting_Events_Testing_the_Relative_Influence_of_Constraints) found that after students became more passionate about their athletic teams they cared more about the event atmosphere. This would be difficult to create through the app without other incentives to draw people to games.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;e. [Campbell explains how greater publicity leads to greater turnout](https://app.carthage.edu/forms/scholars/presentation/727/detail/) at games. The top five most attended teams in the NBA are also the the top five most followed teams on social media. However, I believe this line of thinking can be applied the app providing greater publicity and gaining more attendance.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;f. [In their study, Barrett and Farr](https://thesportjournal.org/article/marketing-division-ii-athletics-to-college-students-the-perceived-effectiveness-of-internally-focused-promotion-tactics/?utm_source=chatgpt.com) found that students were more likely to attend their DII athletic games after marketing initiatives if they were already inclined toward attending, like student athletes. So the app's target audiance would be student athletes to maximize it's impact.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;g. Student athlete, [Abby Yuan says “It makes me want to play better”](https://skylinepost.org/6831/sports/unpacking-the-impact-of-fan-attendance-on-student-athletes/) when the stands are filled and the article clearly links athlete intensity and performance with fan attendance. This shows greater attendence and team success is a cyclical issue.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Features: 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a. Calendar, a centralized calendar with all athletic teams’ game schedules, location of games. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; b. Highlights, a huddle like feature that lets student athletes add highlights from their games to share with their community.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; c. Roster, a section with the roster for each team when you click on their game in the calendar to help spectators identify their friends.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Stakeholders:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. Student athletes: They suffer from lack of publicity for their games and therefore less support. Have a harder time supporting their fellow student athletes and winning the administrations competition for most supportive athletic team. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. Nonstudent athletes: They don’t attend games on campus because finding team schedules is difficult leading to less college pride and lower sense of community.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c.  Admission: College admissions cannot depend on Wellesley College sports events to attract potential students as they are not community bonding events due to the lack of spectators.  
<br>
2.	Wellesley Course Map
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Domain: Selecting classes
I have used Coursicle for the past two years to organize my academic schedule. I like the design; it clearly denotes the time of each class and helps me plan my route between classes. After settling on my academic schedule I have take a picture of my Coursicle and used it throughout the semester to verify the times of my classes. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Problem: Lack of access
Wellesley has locked their course browser and Coursicle can no longer access Wellesley classes meaning I have to manually add every class name, time, day, and frequency. The time it takes to try different arrangements of classes and sections has caused friction and I am hesitant to use Coursicle. The other option is Workday; however, you can only create one schedule at a time, and it requires going to multiple pages to find and add a course.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Selection:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. A planer app for day-to-day use. I believe there are better alternatives than what I could offer, and I would not be able to distinguish this product.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. A feature for popularity of a class. A feature to show how many other students added the same class to their schedule. I believe this feature would not be useful without widespread use of the app and it could discourage other students from registering for popular classes.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Comparable: 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. [The University of Wisconsin Madison](https://news.wisc.edu/6-steps-to-building-the-perfect-college-schedule/): A similar app catered to their student body for class registration with specific features to streamline registration given their specific graduation and registration requirements.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. [Coursicle](https://www.coursicle.com/): A college course scheduling app that makes registering for classes easier and notifies students when classes have availability.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Evidence:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. [Researchers from the University of Kentucky  reported](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.4113): “50% of the PSY group and 40% of the CS group” said they would use software for academic advising support to try “what-if” scenarios such as trying different schedules and experimenting with different courses to fulfill graduation requirements. The study concluded that students found academic advising software useful in addition to professional academic advising.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b.[ Grant found in his Final Report for the Student Mobile App Project](https://ojs.victoria.ac.nz/wfes/article/download/8403/7517/12263) that the “ubiquitous online connectivity and students’ widespread” use of phones make apps the most accessible tool to support students. His app worked within the University’s database reducing friction for students and making the suggestions accessible and personalized.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. In the [study Cognitive Complexity and Degree Planning](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/385266076_Cognitive_Complexity_and_Degree_Planning_Student_Perceptions_of_and_Needs_From_Technology_Tools?utm_source=chatgpt.com): Student Perceptions of and Needs From Technology Tools, the researchers found that student progression and completion is hindered by inaccurate degree planning. This issue is heightened for the who they call the “new majority”, low income, first generation, black, Latino, and indigenous students. They conclude, relying heavily on interviews, that academic advising tools need to be: 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1.	Easy to use, intuitive, fast, accurate, and has a consistent visual design
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2.	Accessible across platforms due to inconsistent access to technology
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3.	Reducing jargon and a reliance on previous knowledge with features to provide more context to words like “corequisite”
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4.	Presenting more information like course ratings
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;d. [The Complete College America found](http://completecollegeamerica.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/05151307/4-Year-Myth.pdf) that only 50 of the more than 580 public four-year institutions in America have on-time graduation rates at or above 50 percent for their full-time students. And they estimated an extra year cost $22,826 in addition to the $45,327 lost wages by graduating late. The total cost of missing graduation requirements is $68,153.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;e. [Creatix says that](https://www.creatrixcampus.com/blog/academic-advising-software-freshman) students using academic advising tools early have greater academic involvement and they reported that early use is vital for freshman going into college. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;f. [Cross device accessibility and integration](https://www.cal.dev/blog/planner-apps-for-students-5-options-for-2024?utm_source=chatgpt.com) with student’s other tools like google calendar are very important in creating an accessible tool for students.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;g. The introduction of [personalized recommendations increases the consumption of content by 60%](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.13940). The researchers base their hypothesis off popular media apps like Netflix and Spotify and conclude personalized recommendations that increase engagement for veteran users on educational apps as well.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Features:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. A calendar view: A drag and drop model to experiment with different classes and sections. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. Insight into teaching: Access to reviews about the instructor on Rate My Professor by clicking on the class. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. Insight on path: More information on what graduation requirements the class fulfills when the user clicks the class.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Stakeholders: 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. Wellesley Student. Students who use the app to plan their schedules and suffer from excessive time to find and select their classes.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. Professors who teach at Wellesley. Professors that teach additional sections of a class could receive more students as the section is at a more convenient but comes up second in searches on Workday.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. Coursicle. The company may take offense the to the similar functionality and design of the app and prefer students to use their website.
<br>
3.	Snack Smart 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Domain: Snacking
I love snacking, it’s hard to make my stomach adhere to dining hall hours. However, a lot of the easy snacks I keep in my dorm room are not healthy. And as a person with a period, this is all complicated by my body’s monthly cycle.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Problem: Choosing healthy snacks as a person with a period
My cravings change week to week and it’s difficult to make healthy decisions when my snacks need to be shelf safe. I don’t understand what my body needs, and I don’t know where I am in my monthly cycle at any given moment.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Selection:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. I thought about adding workouts that correspond with your cycle. For example, stretching versus strength-based workouts depending on if you are in your Luteal or menstrual cycle. But I thought it would be too many features.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. I considered making it more social with other users’ anonymous information being shown to create solidarity. For example, you would see a user at the same point in their cycle as you liked the peanut butter suggestion. However, I don’t believe users would be comfortable with their personal health data being shared.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Comparable:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. [Clue](https://helloclue.com/): A similar menstrual tracking app the focuses on predicting the user’s period, ovulation, and fertility window. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Evidence:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. [A study of 204 women found](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/17455057231185624) that initially, food rich in PUFA and thiamine are highly recommended during MC days for their protection against inconvenience-related symptoms, while food rich in SFA should be avoided to prevent emotional symptoms. Among women who suffer from MC psychological symptoms, avoiding food rich in riboflavin, niacin, and iron is recommended. The app could make these recommendations with accessible language.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. [A study with 259 women found](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26043860/) that in the second half of the menstrual cycle (after ovulation), women tend to eat more protein—especially meat—and in the days just before their period, they feel hungrier and crave things like chocolate, sweets, and salty snacks more than at other times. Because these cravings are dictated by menstrual cycles, healthy snack options that incorporate salt or chocolate would redirect these cravings.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. [A study published in 2024 with 509 women found](https://bmcwomenshealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12905-024-03235-4) that women with menstrual disorders consumed lees protein, vitamin K, B3, B5, sodium. The researchers drew a link between a lack of nutrients and symptoms. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;d. [A study of 27 women found](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7486882/) that women’s intake of carbohydrates, fat, and total calories dropped after ovulation and their perception of sweetness changed during the study. This shows that snack preference will change over their cycle and snacking may increase and decrease.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;e. [A study published in 2023 found](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/nutrition-research-reviews/article/nutritional-practices-to-manage-menstrual-cycle-related-symptoms-a-systematic-review/F28E2DC079C7DC2F1AC07A0EFCDE0DE1) that Curcumin, vitamin D, calcium, magnesium and zinc may reduce menstrual-related symptoms positively affected menstrual symptoms, but researchers suggest further study.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;f. [An article by United Press International reported](https://www.upi.com/Health_News/2023/12/06/women-exercise-menstrual-cycle/2311701875870) that hormones vary too much from person to person and from menstrual cycle to menstrual cycle for dietary solutions to menstrual symptoms. This strikes against benefits of foods to relieve menstrual symptoms but supports the individual nature of the app to address cravings during the menstrual cycle.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;g. [An article from The Healthy says](https://www.thehealthy.com/periods/what-to-eat-period-cravings/) the best strategy is to fill up on healthy foods, like meat, eggs or hummus. It encourages listening to your cravings because women often crave salt before their periods and the body needs more salt in its pre-menstrual phase. 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;h. [A 2016 study found](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4918881/) that women report 15.6 percent more food cravings episodes than men as much as 57 percent more craving in the luteal phase than in the early follicular phase.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Features: 
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. A circular calendar to represent your cycle that adjusts with user input to predict the length of the users cycle as everyone is unique.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. A list of snacks recommended for where the user is currently at in their cycle.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. A section to enter when menstrual symptoms are the worst so that the app can predict and display this on the calendar for users to see.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;•	Stakeholders:
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a. People with periods. People who struggle to find nutritious snacks that fuel their bodies and keep up with their cycle.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b. Dining halls: Dining halls who benefit from students’ patronage would not like students choosing other places to get snacks.
<br> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c. Stores that advertise wholistic foods (Trader Joes): They would appreciate greater patronage if users were looking for food with short ingredient lists. 
<br><br>
4.	Closet additions. I often see clothes others are wearing that I would like to emulate. A reverse image searching app to find other pieces similar to the image I enter that I can purchase and suggest other outfits I may like.
<br><br>
5.	Room sketch. It’s difficult to guess what my college dorm will look like over the summer. This app would allow me to look up my dorm number and create an estimation of the room from floor plan to decorate and experiment before I move in.
<br><br>
6.	Fresh face. I struggle to regularly clean my make-up and keep track of expiration dates. I enter all my products into the app, and it recommends make-up looks to use the breadth of my products before their expiration date and reminds me to clean my products with detailed instructions.
<br><br>
7.	Park place. I often struggle to find park, especially in the city and this discourages me from driving around MIT. An app the crowdsources parking availability around campus.
<br><br>
8.	Where’s the Loco. The locomotion bus that travels between MIT and Wellesley has an inconsistent schedule due to traffic and it is difficult to guess if it is late for my stop or was early and I missed the bus. This app would track the Loco and notify users when the bus is running late or arrives at a stop early (and will potentially leave early).
<br><br>
9.	Pause. Doomscrolling eats up a lot of my time and I have a hard time avoiding social media without deleting all my apps. This app would track time on social media apps selected by the user and suggest pauses to do activities like taking three deep breaths.
<br><br>
10.	Forecast for you. I plan my outfits for the day as part of my nightly routine but would like to plan ahead to a greater extent. This weather app would tie into my google calendar and suggest layers or breathable clothing for my day based on when my activities start and end.
