<em>Question 1</em>\
URL Shortener\
Define a concept for the essential function of a URL shortening service such as tinyurl.com or bit.ly. Your concept should support both user-defined and autogenerated URL suffixes.\
<br>
<strong>Concept</strong> URL Shortener
  - <strong>Purpose</strong> to create a unique short URL from a given URL
  - <strong>Principle</strong>
    Users can enter an URL and receive a shortened URL with either a unique suffix they gave or a randomly generated unique suffix.
  - <strong>State</strong>
    + A set of NewURL String
	    * An originalURL String
      * A suffix String
      * A userDefined flag
      * A owner User
  - <strong>Actions</strong>
      + Create (originalURL: String, userDefined: String, suffix: String, u: User): (newURL: String)
	      * <strong>requires</strong> unique suffix if userDefined is true and a valid User
	      * <strong>effects</strong> creates a unique shortened newURL with suffix if userDefined is true, else randomly generates a unique suffix and creates a new shortened URL that is associted with user
      + Delete (NewURL: String)
	      * <strong>requires</strong> valid NewURL
        * <strong>effects</strong> deletes NewURL so it no longer connects to the original URL and is no longer associated with the User
<br>
There would need to be a synchronized state that handles user authentication so users could not delete shortened URLs that are not their own. An invariable is that each suffix must be unique and it is preserved by the action Create.
<br>
<br>
<br>

<em>Question 2</em>\
Conference Room Booking\
Define a concept for the essential function of a service for booking conference rooms in a company or university department, like CSAIL’s room booking system. Note: you do not need to include recurring bookings.\
<br>
<strong>Concept</strong> Conference Room Booking
  - <strong>Purpose</strong> to book conference rooms in a university 
  - <strong>Principle</strong>
    An admin creates slots with start and end times at different locations. A user can book that time slot at the associated location. An admin can edit the start and end times of un-booked slots.
  - <strong>State</strong>
    + A set of Slots with
	    * A location String
      * A start Time
      * An end Time
    + A set of Bookings with
	    * A user User
      * A Slot
  - <strong>Actions</strong>
    + CreateSlot (location: String, start: Time, end: Time) 
	    * <strong>Requires</strong> location and start and end Time do not overlap with any existing slots
      * <strong>Effects</strong> creates a new slot with the associated location and start and end Time
    + CreateBooking (s: Slot, user: User)
      * <strong>Requires</strong> a valid slot that is not associated with another booking and a valid User
      * <strong>Effects</strong> creates a new Booking associated with this User and slot
    + EditSlot (s: Slot, start: Time, end: Time)
      * <strong>Requires</strong> a valid Slot and a valid User. Start and end Time do not overlap with existing slots. There is no booking associated with Slot
      * <strong>Effects</strong> edits existing slot to new start and end Time
    + DeleteBooking (b: Booking, u: User)
      * <strong>Requires</strong> a valid Booking and valid User
      * <strong>Effects</strong> deletes booking making slot no longer associated with a booking
    + DeleteSlot (s: Slot)
      * <strong>Requires</strong> the Slot must be valid and not be associated with a booking
      * <strong>Effects</strong> deletes slot
<br>
There would need to be a synchronized state that handles user authentication so users could not delete bookings that are not their own or execute admin actions. Another synchronized state that handles reminder emails and notification emails if the admin deletes their slot would be useful. This design does not allow force edits to slots, this avoids users booking a slot at one time and their booking moving to a separate time. An invariant is that no two slots can have an overlapping duration for the same location, this avoids double bookings, this is preserved by the CreateSlot and EditSlot action. An additional invariant is that a Slot can be associated with at most one booking.
